# Introduction

Welcome to Blockchain Fundamentals: Creating your own blockchain, I'm your instructor, Jordan Baczuk. Linkedin recently released a [report](https://economicgraph.linkedin.com/en-us/research/linkedin-2018-emerging-jobs-report) that showed that blockchain developer is the fastest growing job in the United States. As a blockchain developer myself, I have created this course and a set of tools that I wish I had when I got started. I will be teaching you blockchain development fundamentals, providing you with useful blockchain development tools, and walking you through designing a blockchain yourself. In this course, I will focus on the first blockchain application, Bitcoin, and we will discuss the general problem and solution blockchain solves, and why it is important. Then we'll dive right into the technical aspects that make Bitcoin function with examples and we'll clone Bitcoin Core software to make our own blockchain application. By the end of the course, you'll have a solid foundation and your first blockchain application under your belt.

# Who this course is designed for

This course is designed for casual and serious developers who are interested in learning the fundamental concepts of blockchain and tools that can help them develop on and create blockchain applications. You will use the terminal to execute commands as well as write some code in Python and C++. The coding will be guided but will allow you the flexibility to take it further than the examples. You don't have to be a professional coder, but it will definitely help to have basic knowledge of programming. Let's get started.
